<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <title>Interlude II: Atom Heart Mother</title>
        <link href="../style/main.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <article>
            <h1>Interlude II: Atom Heart Mother</h1>
            <p>
                <em>Theme from an Imaginary Western</em><sup><a id="fnref:gilmour" href="notes.xhtml#gilmour">20</a></sup>.
                Progressive symphonic perfection. Such is the transcendence, that the band has been now criticizing this piece
                of their work, many years after its release<sup><a id="fnref:song" href="notes.xhtml#song">21</a></sup>.
            </p>
            <p>
                Inspired by a pregnant woman who had been fitted with a heart peacemaker, Atom Heart Mother provokes the subject
                of sapiens-made devices enabling the — still? — unexplained miracle of this world: life, soul, consciousness.
            </p>
            <p>
                The lyrics follow.
            </p>
            <blockquote>
                <p>
                    Fah<br/>
                    See co ba<br/>
                    Nee toe<br/>
                    Ka ree lo, yea
                </p>
                <p>
                    Sa sa sa sa sa, fss<br/>
                    Drr bo ki<br/>
                    Rapateeka, dodo tah<br/>
                    Rapateeka, dodo cha
                </p>
                <p>
                    Ko sa fa mee ya<br/>
                    Na pa jee te fa<br/>
                    Na pa ru be, mm<br/>
                    Ba sa coo, ba sa coo
                </p>
                <p>
                    Ba sa coo, ba sa coo<br/>
                    Oo<br/>
                    Ku-ku loo, ku-ku loo<br/>
                    Yea yea yea um
                </p>
                <p>
                    Hm ku-ku loo you<br/>
                    Too boo coo doo<br/>
                    Foo goo hoo joo<br/>
                    Loo moo poo roo
                </p>
                <p>
                    Here is a loud announcement
                </p>
                <p>
                    Silence in the studio!
                </p>
            </blockquote>
            <p>
                Apart from the two lyrics in English, all other are spoken out of authentic exclamation for the duality of our
                nature in the cosmos; thus the absence of any specific language, and the presence of the universe-al one.
            </p>
            <p>
                From animals and early humans stems the intrinsic notion of survival; eat, live. However, starting with societies
                of just 3 millennia ago, we concern our minds with questions such as humanity’s purpose or the will of the gods.
                Our lives are drawn between the edges of “wake up, eat, sleep” and “commit suicide because you have no purpose”.
                These are the reflections of the aforementioned duality, and <em>Atom Heart Mother</em>, an ode to this
                absurdity that perpetuates our lives ad infinitum, achieves something nobody else has achieved: the musical
                manifestation of humanity’s desired cosmic balance.
            </p>
            <p>
                Fuckin’ A.
            </p>
        </article>
    </body>
</html>
