<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <title>Notes</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Notes</h1>

        <p>
            <a id="nineteen" href="part-1.xhtml#fnref:nineteen">1</a>. In George Orwell’s <em>Nineteen Eighty-Four</em>,
            Airstrip One is a province of Oceania, the totalitarian superstate where the story takes place.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="children" href="part-1.xhtml#fnref:children">2</a>. In 2021, John Wall published the book:
            <em>Give Children the Vote: On Democratizing Democracy</em>, ISBN: 978-1350196261.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="recovery" href="part-1.xhtml#fnref:recovery">3</a>.
            <a href="https://prog21.dadgum.com/56.html">https://prog21.dadgum.com/56.html</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="advice" href="part-1.xhtml#fnref:advice">4</a>.
            <a href="https://prog21.dadgum.com/80.html">https://prog21.dadgum.com/80.html</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="reading" href="part-1.xhtml#fnref:reading">5</a>. Reading code (both oneself’s and other people’s) is
            underappreciated when learning to program, yet it is fundamental in building software.
        </p>

        <p>
            <a id="faulkner" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:faulkner">6</a>. The following is attributed to William Faulkner:
            “You don’t love because: you love despite; not for the virtues, but despite the faults.”
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="keynes" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:keynes">7</a>. In his text
            <em>Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren</em>, written in 1930.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="work" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:work">8</a>. Living in humanity’s most work-intensive era can be a
            controversial statement. Before dismissing it, let’s consider that a lot of people work today because they
            want to and not because they have to. The number of people who engage in such a pursuit of achievement, I
            feel, is more than ever.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="supply" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:supply">9</a>. There is another term: trickle-down economics,
            popularised more recently, it refers to policies favouring the wealthy bracket of the population with the
            hope that their wealth will trickle down to the less wealthy.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="silliness" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:silliness">10</a>. Silly ideas can be powerful. It used to be
            silly to want a computer in your house. To want it in your pocket wasn’t even silly, though, because it was
            simply unimaginable.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="fisher" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:fisher">11</a>. Mark Fisher mentions this quotation in his book
            <em>Capitalist Realism</em>, which he attributes to both Fredric Jameson and Slavoj Žižek. Interestingly,
            Mark Fisher hanged himself as a result of his struggling with depression. He said: “the pandemic of
            mental anguish that afflicts our time cannot be properly understood, or healed, if viewed as a private
            problem suffered by damaged individuals”. Extreme productivity and efficiency, as part of capitalism,
            not only can lead to destruction through (possibly inevitable) highly advanced/powerful technology but
            also through the absence of space for doing otherwise (i.e. doing inefficient actions) which leads to
            depression (<em>exhaustion</em>).
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="imaginary" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:imaginary">12</a>. An imaginary of a society is a set of core,
            underlying values and beliefs which constitute its foundation. They define how people perceive what’s worth
            doing and what matters in the society. Another definition is “the set of values, institutions, laws, and
            symbols through which people imagine their social whole”.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="insulin" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:insulin">13</a>.
            <a href="https://openinsulin.org/">https://openinsulin.org/</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="django" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:django">14</a>.
            <a href="https://www.djangoproject.com/">https://www.djangoproject.com/</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="licenses" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:licenses">15</a>. This is not exactly true, either, though. There
            is a wide array of licenses that define more specifically what one can and cannot do with some code.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="free" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:free">16</a>. Read more at
            <a href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.en.html">
                https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.en.html
            </a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="oss" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:oss">17</a>. And/or free software.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="funding" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:funding">18</a>. At least I couldn’t find any indication that they
            have. One can see the corporate members of the Django Software Foundation in this website:
            <a href="https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/corporate-members/">https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/corporate-members/</a>.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="ultraviolet" href="part-2.xhtml#fnref:ultraviolet">19</a>. Very few people would agree with the
            statement that this is a nice first step. Not only advocates of capitalism, but even its opponents would
            claim that this is not a viable alternative. To which I poetically respond by paraphrasing Devine Lu Linvega:
            “everything is dark under the ultraviolet sun”
            (<a href="https://merveilles.town/@neauoire">https://merveilles.town/@neauoire</a>).
        </p>

        <p>
            <a id="gilmour" href="interlude-ii.xhtml#fnref:gilmour">20</a>. David Gilmour had given that name to the chord
            progression of the main theme of <em>Atom Heart Mother</em>.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="song" href="interlude-ii.xhtml#fnref:song">21</a>. <em>Atom Heart Mother</em> is a song by the English rock
            band <em>Pink Floyd</em>.
        </p>

        <p>
            <a id="fees" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:fees">22</a>. The cost of Bitcoin’s transfer fees has historically
            been very volatile. It depends on if a lot of people want to transfer money, which makes the Bitcoin network
            crowded (and thus slow). It also depends on whether the sender wants to verify a transaction faster (higher
            fees mean higher speed as miners choose to verify high-value transactions first). In 2022, the average
            Bitcoin transfer cost was between $1 and $2, however, it has reached prices higher than $50 at certain
            periods across the years.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="exploit" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:exploit">23</a>. We exploit ourselves by allowing ourselves to
            be spied upon while relinquishing control of our own data.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="postmark" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:postmark">24</a>. I'm referring to ActiveCampaign’s acquisition
                of Postmark in 2023.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="posthaven" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:posthaven">25</a>.
            <a href="https://posthaven.com/">https://posthaven.com/</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="pledge" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:pledge">26</a>.
            <a href="https://posthaven.com/pledge">https://posthaven.com/pledge</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="posterous" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:posterous">27</a>. Their blogging startup was called Posterous.
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="blueocean" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:blueocean">28</a>. In the book <em>Blue Ocean Strategy</em>,
            authors W. Chan Kim and Renée Mauborgne talk about red oceans, i.e. all industries in existence today, the
            known market space in contrast to blue oceans, the industries and markets which are yet to be discovered.
            Startups usually aim to explore blue oceans by creating new markets (and needs).
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="mataroa" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:mataroa">29</a>.
            <a href="https://mataroa.blog/">https://mataroa.blog/</a>
        </p>
        <p>
            <a id="transparency" href="part-3.xhtml#fnref:transparency">30</a>.
            <a href="https://mataroa.blog/modus/transparency/">https://mataroa.blog/modus/transparency/</a>
        </p>

        <p>
            <a id="film" href="interlude-iii.xhtml#fnref:film">31</a> <em>Everything Everywhere All at Once</em> is a
            film written and directed by Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert, released in 2022.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
