<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <title>Part 4: On Freedom</title>
        <link href="../style/main.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Part 4: On Freedom</h1>

        <article>
            <p>
                When I was at school, I felt content with life. When I started introspecting my personal relationships, I
                couldn’t understand how they could have been limiting (or liberating, for that matter). When I started getting
                paid for work, I thought, <em>“this is it — I made it”</em>.
            </p>
            <p>
                In all those cases, I was expected to not complain, and I didn’t. It was over a longer period of time that I
                discovered how limited I was across all these areas without realising it.
            </p>
            <p>
                This realisation holds a certain essence of freedom.
            </p>
            <p>
                In another scenario, I return home from work and turn on the TV. There is a pizza ad that makes me realise I want
                to eat pizza. I order it and eat. Would I have eaten pizza if not for the ad?
            </p>
            <p>
                There is a difference between eating pizza and not realising why and eating pizza while knowing it’s because of
                the ad. This difference is a difference in freedom.
            </p>
            <p>
                Understanding the reason for something being the way it is matters in the context of freedom. A first step in
                becoming free is the realisation that one is constrained. As society members, we may be constrained by school,
                work, our relationships with friends and with family members. Once we realise what constrains us, we can act. If
                we never realise, we can never be free. We remain controlled by that which affects us without our understanding.
    
            </p>
            <p>
                In the TV pizza example, there wasn’t someone explicitly aiming to make me eat pizza that day. Nobody was
                explicitly controlling my life other than me. However, assuming I ate the pizza because of the TV ad, I may no
                longer had explicit power over my dietary preferences. Since nobody else had that power either, as we claimed in
                the previous sentence, this means that <em>that power was lost</em>.
            </p>
            <p>
                Here’s the harsh reality, though: even if we gave up that power and nobody picked it up, that power is still our
                responsibility. It’s harsh because such responsibility is overwhelming. Yet there isn’t anyone else to bear it.
                No supreme forces, no experts with profound knowledge, and no high-tech answers. It’s just us. If <em>we</em>
                don’t act, nobody will.
            </p>
            <figure>
                <blockquote>
                    <p>
                        We are overwhelmed by loss and think we will never recover a sense of self and purpose, that we will never
                        mend. But despite—and, really, because of—the struggles and the tragedies in our lives, each of us has the
                        capacity to gain the perspective that transforms us from victim to thriver. We can choose to take
                        responsibility for our hardships and our healing. We can choose to be free.
                    </p>
                </blockquote>
                <figcaption>—Edith Eger, <cite>The Choice: Embrace the Possible</cite>, 2017</figcaption>
            </figure>
        </article>
    </body>
</html>
